---
layout: page
title: Research
menu: main
order: 1
permalink: /research/
---
***
### Published Papers:

#### A coupled machine learning and genetic algorithm approach to the design of porous electrodes for redox flow batteries
**Shuaibin Wan**\*, Xiongwei Liang\*, Haoran Jiang, Jing Sun, Ned Djilali, Tianshou Zhao
*Applied Energy* **298**, 117177 (2021) [Online Version](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261921006073)

**Abstract** The design of porous electrodes with large specific surface area and high hydraulic permeability is a longstanding target for the development of redox flow batteries (RFBs), but traditional trial-and-error strategies are hindered by the heavy cost of collecting large amounts of data and the limitation of human intuition when multiple trade-offs are at play. In this work, a novel framework coupling machine learning and genetic algorithm is developed to identify the optimal electrode structures for RFBs. A custom-made dataset containing 2275 fibrous structures is first generated by adopting a combination of stochastic reconstruction method, morphological algorithm, and lattice Boltzmann method. Based on the dataset, our best machine learning models allow to achieve test errors of 1.91% and 11.48% for predicting specific surface area and hydraulic permeability, respectively. Combined with well-trained prediction models, the genetic algorithm is developed to screen more than 700 promising candidates with up to 80% larger specific surface area and up to 50% higher hydraulic permeability than the commercial graphite felt electrodes. Results show that the fiber diameter and electrode porosity of these promising candidates exhibit a triangle-like joint distribution, with a preference for fiber diameters of around 5 {\mu}m with aligned arrangements. 

#### A numerical study of infiltrated solid oxide fuel cell electrode with dual‐phase backbone
**Shuaibin Wan**, Mufu Yan, Yanxiang Zhang
*International Journal of Energy Research* **43** (7), 2562-2570 (2019) [Online Version](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/er.4129)

**Abstract** Three-dimensional microstructure of infiltrated solid oxide fuel cell electrodes with dual-phase backbone is simulated numerically. This work employs LSM (lanthanum strontium manganite) infiltrated LSM yttria-stabilized zirconia composite electrodes as an example. Important geometric properties, including percolation probability of LSM, total and percolated three-phase boundary (TPB) lengths, and total and percolated surface areas of LSM, are calculated under various LSM nanoparticle loadings. One important finding is that compared with pure yttria-stabilized zirconia backbone, dual-phase backbone results in lower TPB length and has little impact on the surface area of LSM particles. Therefore, the addition of LSM backbone may be ineffective, even negative in promoting the electrode performance, however, can significantly reduce the LSM infiltration threshold loading to form a percolating network. The trade-off between decreasing infiltration cycle and increasing TPB length demands an optimized content of LSM in backbone.

### Research Experience:

| The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology | Hong Kong SAR, China |
| ----------- | ----------: |
| Research Assistant to Prof. Tianshou Zhao | Aug 2018 – Present |
{:.custom-table}

| Harbin Institute of Technology | Harbin, China |
| --------------------- | ------------: |
| Research Assistant to Prof. Yanxiang Zhang | Jun 2016 - Jun 2018 |
{:.custom-table}


